---
layout: page
title: API
order: 6
---

## Search Endpoints

All Search endpoints return a sorted json array. The search data is populated by observing data that has been relayed through the instance of bosun.

### /api/metric

Returns the metrics that have been relayed through bosun.

### /api/metric/{tagk}/{tagv}

Returns the metrics that are available for the specified tagk/tagv pair. For example, you can see what metrics are available for host=server01.

### /api/tagk/{metric}

Get all the available tagks that exist for the specified metric

### /api/tagv/{tagk}

Get all the available tagvs for the specified tagk

### /api/tagv/{tagk}/{metric}

Get all the available tagvs for the specific tagk and metric combination. You can optionally add a query string of tagk=tagv pairs to filter it even more. For example: `/api/tagv/iface/os.net.bytes?host=server01&direction=in`

### /api/metadata/get

Get latest values of all metadata. Optional parameters:

* **metric**: filter by metric name. Ex: `/api/metadata/get?metric=os.cpu`.
* **tagk** and **tagv** pairs: filter by tag values; must be correctly paired; many supported. Ex: `/api/metadata/get?tagk=key1&tagv=val1&tagk=key2&tagv=val2`.

## Passthrough Endpoints

By default, bosun also listen on `:4242` and passes all HTTP API requests through to OpenTSDB. So if you are you are looking to send data to bosun or query it using opentsdb's query format, then look at the [OpenTSDB Documentation on its API Endpoints](http://opentsdb.net/docs/build/html/api_http/index.html#api-endpoints).

We also have this reference for [sending data to bosun]({{site.github.url}}/sending.html).

## Expression Endpoint

### /api/expr?q={url encoded bosun expression}

The expression endpoint takes a URL encoded bosun expression expression and returns the results and OpenTSDB queries. The results includes a breakdown of the computations involved in the expression, the result or value, and the group (OpenTSDB's tagset) of the expression. The queries are the [OpenTSDB requests](http://godoc.org/github.com/StackExchange/scollector/opentsdb#Request) generated by the query.

## Configuration Endpoints

### /api/config

Returns the current configuration that bosun is loaded with as text.
